DATA/README.md, before:

# Data Description

This directory contains the **processed data** obtained from the analysis of spin configurations generated by the Monte Carlo simulations implemented in this repository.

These data constitute the basis for the results presented in the associated publication.

---

## Directory organization

The data are organized according to:

1. **Boundary conditions along the longitudinal \(Z\) direction**:
   
   - `PBC/` — Periodic boundary conditions.
   - `OBC/` — Open boundary conditions.

2. **Type of coupling or disorder realization** (for OBC data):
   
   - `INDEPENDENT/`
   - `STRONG/`
   - `WEAK/`

See [article](https.doi.org/) for more information on the exact definition of the boundary conditions.

3. **System size**, specified as transverse size \(\times\) longitudinal size (e.g., `16x48/`).

Each system size directory contains a compressed archive of the form:

```
results_NBLOCKSXXXX.tar.gz
```

which includes all observables measured for that simulation setup.

---

## Contents of the results archives

Each `results_*.tar.gz` archive contains multiple data files.  
The filename encodes the following information:

- The **measured observable**.
- The **basis functions** used to construct the associated correlation function:
  - \(f(x), g(x) \in \{x, x^3, \mathrm{sign}(x)\}\),
    represented in filenames by `1`, `3`, and `-1`, respectively.
- The **number of replicas** used to compute the observable:
  - `n = 0, 1, 2, 3`, corresponding to `r = 2, 4, 6, 8` replicas.
- The **total number of disorder samples** used in the measurement.

---

## Data format

All data files follow the same column structure:

1. Temperature index  
2. Inverse temperature \(\beta\)  
3. Abscissa (distance, matrix index, or \(r_{\min}\), depending on the observable)  
4. Observable obtained from the correlation function  
5. Statistical error of the observable  
6. Observable obtained from the normalized correlation function  
7. Statistical error of the normalized observable  

## Interpolated data

In some data files, the **first column may contain the character `I`**.  
This indicates that the corresponding entry has been obtained by **interpolation**, rather than being a direct measurement at a simulated temperature.

All other columns retain the same meaning as described above.

---

## Notes

- The data provided here are **processed data**, not raw spin configurations.

Commit message:

Update data files with new observables and renamed files; Modify plotting scripts to accommodate name changes and new observables, updating figures accordingly; Revise data README to reflect updated filenames; Add two new figures.

DATA/README.md, after:

# Data Description

This directory contains the **processed data** obtained from the analysis of spin configurations generated by the Monte Carlo simulations implemented in this repository.

These data constitute the basis for the results presented in the associated publication.

---

## Directory organization

The data are organized according to:

1. **Boundary conditions along the longitudinal \(Z\) direction**:
   
   - `PBC/` — Periodic boundary conditions.
   - `OBC/` — Open boundary conditions.

2. **Type of coupling or disorder realization** (for OBC data):
   
   - `INDEPENDENT/`
   - `STRONG/`
   - `WEAK/`

See [article](https.doi.org/) for more information on the exact definition of the boundary conditions.

3. **System size**, specified as transverse size \(\times\) longitudinal size (e.g., `16x48/`).

Each system size directory contains a compressed archive of the form:

```
results_NBLOCKSXXXX.tar.gz
```

which includes all observables measured for that simulation setup.

---

## Contents of the results archives

Each `results_*.tar.gz` archive contains multiple data files.  
The filename encodes the following information:

- The **measured observable**.
- The **basis functions** used to construct the associated correlation function:
  - \(f(x), g(x) \in \{x, x^3, \mathrm{sign}(x)\}\),
    represented in filenames by `Q`, `Q3`, and `signQ`, respectively.
- The **number of replicas** used to compute the observable:
  - `n = 0, 1, 2, 3`, corresponding to `r = 2, 4, 6, 8` replicas.
- The **total number of disorder samples** used in the measurement.

- Notice that, given the 3 possible observables, it is possible to construct a correlation matrix. Each element of this matrix corresponds to the correlation using the functions f(x) and g(x). We can also calculate the determinant of this matrix for each distance (and the corresponding observables from it), which is denoted by `DET`. In the same way, we can compute the determinant of a 2 by 2 matrix, getting only two of the possible f(x). We identify these observables with `MIN` and the functions under consideration.


---

## Data format

All data files follow the same column structure:

1. Temperature index  
2. Inverse temperature \(\beta\)  
3. Abscissa (distance, matrix index, or \(r_{\min}\), depending on the observable)  
4. Observable obtained from the correlation function  
5. Statistical error of the observable  
6. Observable obtained from the normalized correlation function  
7. Statistical error of the normalized observable  

## Interpolated data

In some data files, the **first column may contain the character `I`**.  
This indicates that the corresponding entry has been obtained by **interpolation**, rather than being a direct measurement at a simulated temperature.

All other columns retain the same meaning as described above.

---

## Notes

- The data provided here are **processed data**, not raw spin configurations.
